Skip to main content
Land Development Services Alert:
CONTACT INFORMATION:
Land Development Services is open Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. and Friday, 9:15 a.m. - 4 p.m. Please note that visitors arriving after 3:45 p.m. will not be added to in-person service queues.
703-222-0801
TTY 711
LandDevelopmentServices@fairfaxcounty.gov
12055 Government Center Pkwy, Suite 324
Fairfax, VA 22035
fairfaxcounty
Bill Hicks
Director
Department Resources
LDS Home
Permit Library
Building Review
Building & Trade Inspections
Site Review
Site Inspections
Codes and Policies
Building and Site Codes
Public Facility Manual
Zoning Ordinance
Letters to Industry
Project Management Program
PLUS (Online Permitting System)
GIS Applications
Forms & Publications
Education & Outreach Events
Records | FOIA
Contact Us
Meet With Staff
Staff Directory
Related Resources
LDS PLUS Support
PLUS Portal
facebook
Solar (SOLARR) - Residential
A residential solar permit is required for roof-mounted and free-standing residential solar projects.
Standalone electrical records are no longer required for the installation of the related equipment, you will be prompted to enter that equipment as part of the process. If additional electrical work is required, like replacing or doing a heavy-up to the electrical service, then a standalone electrical record would be required.
Additionally, property owners may qualify for a tax exemption for the installation of solar equipment. For more details, visit the Solar Energy Equipment Tax Exemption webpage.
Note: Some residential properties (example: apartment buildings and condos) are considered commercial per the building code and therefore require commercial building permits. To be considered residential, a project must consist of a detached one- or two-family dwelling or townhouse and be no more than three stories high above ground level, as defined by code.
ON THIS PAGE
Who Should Apply?
Plan Ahead
How Do I Submit My Record?
Requirements
What's Next?
Additional Resources
This information is the most common for how to obtain the necessary approval for your project and is not representative of all the conditions you may encounter.
WHO SHOULD APPLY?
Property owners may obtain permits in their own name, however, it is strongly recommended a properly licensed contractor pull the permits as the responsible party so the county can better assist in gaining compliance for defective work.
Hiring a Contractor
Verify License on DPOR Website
PLAN AHEAD
Before submitting, ensure you are aware of all applicable regulations and conditions that could affect your project to avoid surprises during the review process. Some of those factors include:
Zoning Information
Design Codes and Standards
Do I Need to Hire a Registered Design Professional (RDP)?
Floodplains
Resource Protection Areas (RPA)
Grading/Site Plans
Parking Tabulation
Types of Soils and Problem Soils
Researching Site Conditions
To get a detailed description about each regulation and condition, visit our Plan Ahead page.
HOW DO I SUBMIT MY RECORD?
PLUS Application
Apply for your residential solar record online in PLUS under the Building tab. If you are a first-time user, you must first register for an account.
Instructional Videos for PLUS
Need Help with PLUS? Visit Our LDS PLUS Support Page
Helpful Instruction Guide:
Uploading Plans and Documents
Requirements
Depending on the scope of your project, one or more of the following may be required:
First Submission
Fairfax Coversheet
Uploaded separately from the plan coversheet contained within your architectural/structural drawings.
Architectural/Structural Drawings
Meeting plan minimum submission requirements or use one of our county typical details.
House Location Plat or Grading Plan Submission Record Number
Depends on the associated land disturbance proposed.
Permit Authorization
Required if the applicant is not the owner and is not a licensed contractor.
Property Ownership Affidavit
Required if the owner information does not match current tax records, often when there is a new owner.
License Exemption Affidavit
Required if a licensed contractor is not listed on the application.
Projects located in the towns of Clifton or Vienna require separate approvals from the respective towns.
Approval documentation from the appropriate township must be uploaded to your PLUS record, via the Digital Plan Room, and named accordingly (e.g., Town of Vienna Approval).
Subsequent Submissions
If corrections are required, you will receive an email with links and instructions to make corrections and resubmit.
“Issues” are comments from reviewers, which require an applicant response before resubmitting. Please respond to each “open” comment.
Prior to responding to comments and uploading revised plans/documents, navigate to the “Fees” tab and pay any outstanding resubmission fees.
Once complete, respond to all “open” issues, upload updated plans and/or documents, if needed, and complete your resubmission.
For further assistance, please refer to the below videos for step-by-step guidance on the resubmission process:
Helpful Videos:
Respond to Issues - YouTube
Void a Plan Sheet - YouTube
Upload Corrected Plans - YouTube
Helpful Instruction Guides:
Corrections Required
VOID Sheet Process
What's Next?
To get a step-by-step guide on PLUS statuses and what they mean, see our What is My PLUS Status? Building Plans Infographic.
Review Process
Staff from the Permit Application Center, Health Department (if on well or septic), Building Plan Review, Site Technician Review team, Fire Marshal’s Office, Wastewater and Zoning may review your package for completeness and compliance with the building code and county ordinances. You will be notified of any deficiencies. Plan corrections, resubmission fees and additional supporting documents may be required.
Queue Times
Fees
Workflow Routing Slip to track review and plan assignment
For a detailed summary of application progress, to include the name(s) of assigned review staff, click on “Reports” in the top-right corner of the PLUS screen, when you are in a specific record, and select “Workflow Routing Slip Report.”
Permit Issuance
Once all reviews are approved and fees have been paid, your permit card and approved plans (if applicable) will be available to download from PLUS. You will also receive a link via a PLUS email notification.
Helpful Videos:
Approved Plans - YouTube Video
Building Inspections
Once the permit is issued and you begin construction, you are required to obtain inspections from the county for your project. The county must be notified when the stages of construction are reached that require an inspection. For more information, see our inspections webpage.
Helpful Videos:
Building Inspections (an overview on how to schedule an inspection) - YouTube Video
Scheduling Building Inspections (a deeper dive into scheduling inspections, including common issues) - YouTube Video
Additional Resources
Solar Energy Equipment Tax Exemption Program
Going Solar in Fairfax County | Office of Environmental and Energy Coordination
Need More Assistance?
For questions or additional information, please contact staff via telephone at 703-222-0801, TTY 711.
Back to Top
Was this guide helpful? Tell us by completing this feedback form.
Need Help? Call 703-222-0801, TTY 711.
Monday through Thursday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Friday from 9:15 a.m. to 4 p.m.
LDS Permit Library:  Access guides to navigate every record type in PLUS.
Letters to Industry:  Subscribe for LDS announcements, notices, and tech bulletins.
Meet With Staff:  Find a staff member to help you with the permit process.
Recent Interactions
Clear Interactions History
Close Sidebar
Ask Fairfax
Terms & Conditions
Close
Live chat available
Search our site
Related Resources
LDS PLUS Support
PLUS Portal
facebook